do you want to stay in a relationship
with me or do you want to play dumb
video games and are any of the games
partnership is that I'm certain in week
that if I played video games it upsets
you that much you're going to break up
with me the games in the last few years
I've traveled all around the world
partly by choice
partly because of the conditions of my
divorce and going to visit my daughter
and I see government propaganda for so
many different things you know
propaganda for joining the army sure but
some of those propaganda for really
specific social issues like are you sure
you're not racist oh look at the mirror
and ask yourself how prejudiced you are
today
I remember one public service campaign
of this kind it was like are you sure
you're spending enough time walking your
dog don't neglect your house pets
they're all these sort of sanctimonious
often somewhat pointless public
information campaigns I would love to
see a billboard I would love to see an
advertisement campaign up that said
choose life choose reality the only way
to win is not playing the game and I'm
not talking about gambling here I'm
talking about the epidemic of the video
game playing far beyond video game
addiction it's an issue that governments
around the world are going to have to
start to take seriously and that you and
I as humble citizens in democratic
systems we're gonna have to step up and
start to take it seriously - do you want
to stay in a relationship with me or do
you want to play dumb video games that
are any of the games so the girl was
joking here but the guy wasn't she
decided to confront this guy and pretend
that she was demanding that he did he
quit video games but the guy did not
know it was joke he did not know what
setup and when she demanded to know who
would you choose are you gonna choose to
be with me or
gonna choose to play video games his
answer was that he's gonna choose to
continue playing video games that's
probably true but at the same time it
keeps me sane like you would be studying
you could literally do anything but
video games obviously the fact that you
chose the video games for me a hundred
percent it's nothing like me coming up
to you Gabrielle either you start
wearing makeup or we're done that'd be
ridiculous and overbearing and
unbelievably controlling and I hope that
you try to break up with me
is it is it comfortable to your
girlfriend when we make a visit has your
girlfriend ever missed an appointment
refused to show up and participate in
something you wanted to do because of
makeup how many hours a day does your
girlfriend spend putting on makeup is
she spent three hours a day
put her makeup has your girlfriend ever
stayed awake past midnight because she
was just sitting there in front of the
mirror putting on makeup it's really not
comparable at all is it I mean think
about how you'd feel the positions were
reversed what if your girlfriend didn't
show up for and didn't participate in
something anything that you really care
about doing because she was busy playing
video games because she cared more about
playing video games then doing that
thing whatever was he wanted to do
whether that was climbing a mountain or
making love to each other or spending
quality time doing some activity or
another I don't know whatever it is that
matters to you in your life short-term
or long-term whatever it is you're
trying to make progress towards as a
goal if your girlfriend were not doing
that because she was busy playing video
games how would you feel about her it's
not it's not like wearing makeup at all
I heard about any other couple saying
something like that I'd be like oh it's
over that's ridiculous that's childish
I'm just saying video games are me like
make your choice video games so I wanted
to remake the video talking about when
to know when
ready to quit video games because I had
to think about it more and I have to
think about like what really got me to
quit video games and I think it was
again I lost the value in video games I
thought they I didn't think they were
cool anymore I kind of saw them as
pathetic and stupid you see it it's just
something really pathetic I don't know
how it happened I didn't make the
decision to see it like that it just one
day happened and I think it had a lot to
do with just seeing other people
mesmerised with the game and kind of
looking at it and saying wow that person
is pathetic that person is such a lame
nerd like this stuff is stupid this
stuff is useless you know and here he is
like mesmerized by it and taking it so
serious
so it's interesting he for him the
trigger or the breaking point was him
perceiving this in others right like for
me I can perceive it in myself I'm not
capable of enjoying playing a video game
now as an adult in the way that I could
enjoy it as a child you know I'm to be
blunt I'm not stupid enough anymore
and I mean like I can remember the first
day I ever played Sonic the Hedgehog 2
when I was a kid and I was already old
enough when that happened that I was
aware like wow this period of my life is
ending like I remember the first day of
played Santa - I was excited and him
feeling that excitement I was already
aware then like this is a really
childish kind of excitement and like
this is probably the last time I'm gonna
feel this way plank video game and it
was I mean that was it I think Sonic the
Hedgehog - that was the last time I
thought when Sonic the Hedgehog 3 came
out I didn't really care who's you know
I had some kind of detach interest now
that's interesting you know what are
they doing with the series you know what
you know like but like you know that was
just like a newspaper story it was just
an interesting thing happening in the
culture whereas the first time I played
sonic the hedge
- you know I lit up I was I was happy
okay the last time I tried playing a
Sonic the Hedgehog video game I was
sitting on the toilet and I had Sonic
the Hedgehog on a mobile device I was
like well you know whatever I'm gonna be
sitting on the toilet for a while I
could try playing some catch-up and like
after like two minutes I stuck this is a
horrible drudgery there's no way I can
enjoy doing this like none there is
there's nothing about this that's
enjoyable or interesting or entertaining
or fun for me it's not just the case
that I would prefer to be reading a book
while I was on the toilet it's it's not
that convenient to read a book in the
bath it's really not I would rather just
sit here and think about something
meaningful rather than do this kind of
drudgery this busy work of playing this
game I really think when you're an
intelligent person you apply your
intelligence to every element of your
life your diet your exercise your
recreation your work you know I don't
think it's possible for an intelligent
person to step back into that
fundamentally childish and childlike and
stupid mindset that's necessary to enjoy
playing video games and sure we all have
to question to what extent in our own
lives being intelligent is a choice and
it's a choice that brings with it its
own joys and its own miseries sure but
I'm forever cut off from that childlike
and childish experience so what really
got me to quit video games is I realized
it was just really pathetic and lame and
stupid and I would pretty much rather do
anything with my time and again I could
think about all the different games and
just like I I have to admit I think it
was other players and seeing how
pathetic the interaction was with them
that that really made me realize how
pathetic video games actually are I I
and I just stamped out of it and I quit
playing video games because again I'll
that's how a lot of people see video
games to be honest you know a lot of
people who don't play video games they
see it as a pathetic waste of time like
why the [ __ ] are you playing that [ __ ]
stupid so wasting time you're not making
any money or not doing nothing with it
it's a waste of [ __ ] time and then a
lot of people you know who defend video
gives a little wood but it's a shiny
object to me and it you know it's
relaxing and but it's stupid
it it legitimately is and again you can
be mesmerized by it and think it's not
stupid that's that's again I used to
think it was really cool but at one
point it just it just I realized it
wasn't so that's really the real way
that I quit my video game addiction you
can you can be working on two projects
say and one project starts making a ton
of money starts making thousands of
dollars and the other project you may
have liked it too but it made no money
or like five dollars so you have one
project making thousands of dollars one
project making five dollars of course
you're gonna be like oh you know I'm
gonna I'm gonna forget about the five
dollar project and I'm gonna invest all
my time in the thousand dollar project
sometimes again it's about finding a
replacement that truly is just like
obviously a better choice and the other
project is just a [ __ ] waste of time
okay and it's a no-brainer and it's the
same with like video games like wow this
is pathetic
you know it's unhealthy its addicting
you know everything about it is pathetic
and then maybe could be like working out
and dating and all this [ __ ] and you're
like wow that's I'm getting so much more
out of this you know so it's like you
know it's a clear winner you just have
to realize it and and and see that
better option as an option and and then
I think again that's the the real way
that you get out of a lot of addiction
thing and especially video game
addiction you have to find something
that's better and I think a lot of
people struggle you know they quit video
games and they have nothing to replace
it with they try to replace it and they
can't and then they fall back to video
games
and they defend video games and that's
[ __ ] sad and like one time I remember
I was playing this RPG game and I paid
somebody $25 for a super rare item that
was extremely hard to get and that was
the only way I could get it was to pay
for it and for $25 to get the rarest one
of the rarest the best weapons in the
game to me it was worth it you know it
was like a [ __ ] micro transaction but
for weeks if not months he thought he
was the coolest [ __ ] for getting $25
like months later he was still bragging
about how he sold an item for $25 and I
was like god damn that's [ __ ]
pathetic one you don't even have the
rarest item in the game anymore and two
you could make $25 working a [ __ ] job
you know half the day a couple a couple
of hours minimum wage so a lot of you
guys know if you follow my instagram or
my snapchat that I sold my $5,000 plus
set gaming setup and I quit gaming
full-time at like I'm just completely
and a lot of you of my fans out there on
YouTube and Instagram have been like oh
why is Rodney why he's Rathbone like
cameos gave me except what has happened
to me this is crazy I don't got a lot of
fans out there but I got a few okay 200
plus and I care about you guys like I
might not be like one of 10 million
subscriber youtubers and a lot of my
friends like make fun of me because I
think I'm a big hotshot which I don't
think of a big hotshot but they laugh at
me because they think like oh you just
got 200 fans and he's acting like you
got a million no it's just because I
care about you guys you see and I need
to tell you guys why I'm doing what I'm
doing so it might be complicated for you
guys to understand but gaming it's a
great way to make millions easily like
for at night tournaments twelve million
dollars if you win the world 20 million
always would win the World Cup it's
crazy like Booga he's a millionaire
multi-millionaire because you won the
World Cup in third place they have all
they got like a million dollars
like it's crazy with you can win but
it's not a good way to spend your time
people get like all kinds of diseases
from sitting in their chairs 18 hours
out of the day it is so unhealthy like
ninja he streams 12 hours a day then he
stays up only on his plasma TV that and
just watch his Game of Thrones
until 2:00 a.m. it's so unhealthy and
like I don't know how to explain this
but I used to be really strong I used to
go out and farm and work on my tractor
and work with my dad outside on the big
barn with our goats and our animals and
our dogs go outside run and play have
fun with my friends go out to a concert
or something and no I'm stuck here
gaming isn't that interesting for him it
was the physical deterioration that made
him reconsider his lifestyle choice for
different people it's different things
I hate I new First Nations people Native
American people what everyone say back
when I was living in Saskatchewan and a
lot of them had a kind of childhood
memory of that that up to a certain
point in their youth they were really
strong and really healthy even it's just
cuz they kind of ran around lifting
boats in and out of the river kind of
miscellaneous outdoor activities like
that and then at one point it all
stopped as video games and television
you know increasingly took over their
life took over a few hours per day in
their childhood when they weren't in
school or weren't you know eating
sleeping showering so on and so forth
there's a totally hypocritical youtuber
called pat the nes punk and I saw his
commentary on China's new government
policy to try to limit young people to
playing online video games for three
hours a day and he wants to act like
three hours days not three hours a day
is nothing how many hours of the day do
you have in which you could be reading a
book in which you could be developing
your mind or as this kid says when you
could be in some sense develop
your body even if that's just in kind of
freeform you know outdoor play how many
hours day do you have when you're not in
school not doing the grocery shopping
and not asleep three hours a day is an
unbelievable drain in your productivity
three hours a day is an unbelievable
limit to your mental and physical self
cultivation but it's interesting that
for this kid
the turning point was recognizing his
physical deterioration as a result of
playing video games and he had the
fantasy that he could earn millions of
dollars doing it and losing health it's
Louise you know I've lost a lot of my
muscle up and trying to gain it back by
working out and playing outside and
going with my friends working on our
farm and all kinds of stuff it's just so
much better also ever since I've stopped
gaming my grades have gone through the
roof it's crazy like A's and B's pluses
in all my classes it's it's crazy hey
these C's and even an F and my classes
before it's a crazy weight can change
it's crazy and I want to start working
on my future guitar my music I'm I'm
very talented God given me gave me a
gift
sorry God gave me a gift from music I
have almost relatively perfect pitch in
my ears and I had no idea until I
started music and it would be
purposefully pitch perfect that my
parents had allowed me to listen to
music when I was younger but they didn't
believe in music we just sang hymns in
church every Saturday or Sunday and
that's all I learned but now I know that
if I had listened to music I would have
perfect pitch in my ears and my guitar
playing in three years I've excelled
like crazy like I'm as good as people
like my friend Ashley who's been playing
all our life I am almost completely good
as her or better yet I haven't playing
for three years when I go to college I'm
going to Berkeley music Institute
University it's in Boston if you don't
if you guys don't know what it is you
should look it up I'm gonna start
whoopin my own
and working really hard for the x4 you
three and a half years now um to get
prepared and get a scholarship so I'm
just gonna start pursuing my career
music and otherwise you guys or follow
me or subscribe to me for my gaming
content if that's the way only way you
want to watch
I suggest unsubscribing from me there
you go that kid got a new dream a new
sense of direction motivation to study
motivation get high grades he has a
specific idea about going to college
having a career as a guitarist
he may have unrealistic expectations of
career as a guitarist just as he had
unrealistic expectations of being a
professional video game player making
millions of dollars before but
nevertheless obviously turns whole life
around and it started with this
awareness that whoa he was withering
away physically playing video games and
obviously he was at least aware that his
studies at school or with a whirring way
I think he doesn't have much of a
concept of the extent to which he might
have been with her in way intellectually
also but interesting that kid turned it
around here by contrast is some kid who
did not quote I just learned that I got
kicked out of college my first year on
my own really lucky to get in the
University of Florida and not have to
worry about tuition and I wasted it all
I wound up there knowing that I had a
gaming problem but I told myself as I
always do that I could control it after
dropping two classes and failing another
my first semester you'd think I'd get
some perspective but did I learn
anything of course not
I failed another two classes can't go
back now though burnt that bridge I
still refused to give it up I'm not even
good at the games I play I just can't
get away from the distraction I think to
myself that I should be taking care of
some other responsibilities but oh I
could finish that later I have time I
lie to myself so much I lie to everyone
I can't remember the last time I was
completely honest with someone I say
that I want to change but then I don't
change my parents say that I must not
really want to change that this has been
my choice I can't disagree with that I
need to recognize this problem as
something inside myself something I can
kick but I also can't let my addiction
have any hold
life it needs to go if I'm ever going to
be able to live on my own and support a
family it's difficult though because I
don't really know what motivates me I
don't have any goals for life
I've just lived my life up until this
point the easiest way possible and that
doesn't really involve thinking about
what I want to do with my life
I think one of the most profound and
disturbing ways in which video games
exercise a corrosive influence on
people's lives is that it trains them to
enjoy only what is familiar and under
their control and fully known
video games present you with a simulated
world in which you control what happens
you control everything to a much greater
extent than you can in real life in
which you understand what's happening in
that world
it's knowable to you you know how to win
you know how to lose you know the rules
of the game and precisely what we need
to be prepared to do in life is to take
risks and do things boldly with courage
where the outcomes are really unknown
and if you think I just mean something
like going to Cambodia to do
humanitarian work I don't you know when
I do research projects I go to the
library and I boldly and courageously
try to research something that to me is
unknown the first time I decided to do a
research project on Sakhalin Island
which in Japanese is called Kuro futo
it's just like man nobody's written
anything about the history the political
history of this enormous island that's
just north of Japan and I'm vaguely
aware from like checking Wikipedia
politically it was contested between
China Russia and Japan these three
countries fought over okay when I'm
going to the library to take that book
off the shelf and start doing that
research project and to write an essay
for it alright I know this doesn't seem
to connect to
bravery or courage in the same way as I
don't know going to the jungle and
chopping your own firewood which I've
done and boiling beans over a wood fire
and doing humanitarian working I mean
risking getting malaria the biggest
threat to my health and my life there
were mosquitoes that's the truth right
um you may not think that's courage but
it's a kind of courage it's a kind of
boldness it's taking your curiosity and
saying I'm gonna strike out into the
world try to mix in this and what am I
gonna discover I don't know maybe I
start doing this research and I figure
out there's no story to tell there
there's no essay to write there and now
I've got to take on a new direction I've
got to go back to the drawing board I've
got to start with a blank sheet of paper
and start a whole new research project a
new essay that can happen or it can be
that I start doing this research project
and I expected the Russians to be the
bad guys but the Russians in earnest be
the good guys or you expected you
expected the Japanese to be the bad guys
you expect the Japanese would be
carrying out a genocide there against
the indigenous people and then you find
out the history wasn't like that at all
you're gonna challenge you know your own
assumptions you're gonna challenge your
own ignorance and you're gonna learn to
cope with you know doubt and self doubt
and uncertainty you're gonna learn to
have a productive active analytical
relationship with things you don't know
and things you can't control because
that's the nature of man's struggle with
reality is a struggle with the unknown
and when you're playing video games
you're training yourself just to enjoy
this much more narrow and shallow
experience of a world where everything
is under your control everything is now